In the previous video, we have done
installing gns3 on our computer.
Next in this video, we are going to
learn how to import cisco router to gns3.
First, we need to download cisco image,
let’s just go to browser, and then type
download cisco image for gns3. Let’s just open the
first website, and here we can choose some image.
You are free to use any image, but my
recommendation is 7200 and 2691,
if the specification of your laptop is high, you
can use 7200, but if not, you can use 2691.
In this case, I will try to use 7200 first,
but if this is to heavy, I will move to 2691.
Okay let’s back to gns3, I
already download the 7200 series,
let’s just import it, go to gns3 and
then preference. If you use windows,
the preference menu will be under
edit. Next go to ios router,
click new to import new router. Let’s import
the cisco image that we have downloaded before.
This is the image, let’s import this,
next, next, the default ram is 512,
next, in the slot 1, we can choose
2fe-tx, so this is two fast ethernet.
Next, choose Idle-pc finder,
wait for a minute here, okay
done, and here we can finish.
Okay so now we have done import
the cisco router to gns3.
Let’s create a new project.
And then go to here, we can import
the router that we already import.
Let’s import 2 router, and then to start
the router, we can right click on the router
and then start, here we can see that router 1 is
green, this is means that router 1 is started,
let’s also start router 2. To remote the
router, we can just double click the router.
Okay here we are successful remote the
router, let’s connecting this two router,
if we want to see the interface
label, we can click on this icon.
Here we can see the interface label,
router 1 is connected to fa0/0,
and router 2 also connected to fa0/0.
Let’s try to configure the ip address, let’s
start with router 1, configure terminal,
we will configure fa0/0, so go to interface
fa0/0, no shutdown,
and then the ip address is 10.10.10.1 255.255.255.0.
Next for router 2, configure terminal,
interface fa0/0, no shutdown, and then the
ip address is 10.10.10.2 255.255.255.0.
Okay done, let’s test the connection, from
router 2 ping to router 1, do ping 10.10.10.1,
okay here we can see that the ping is success.
I think enough for this video
Thank you for watching and see you on the next video.